# Real-Time-Cameras

## [Camera Control in Computer Graphics by Marc Christie and Patrick Olivier](https://github.com/pixiesue/Real-Time-Cameras/blob/6abe1b87f1d85a8a4b3c4ccf972d4f9959618469/Camera%20Control%20in%20Computer%20Graphics.pdf)

## Real-Time Cameras – Mark Haig-Hutchinson
The control of cameras is as important in games as it is in cinema. How the camera tracks and moves determines our point of view and influences our attitude towards the content. A poorly designed camera system in a game can disrupt a users experience, while a well-designed one can make a good game into a great one. The challenge in games is that the camera must respond to unscripted events, and this is where much of the difficulty of designing real-time camera systems arises. The increasing use of motion in virtual environments, marked by the inclusion of physics modeling and complex collision detection systems, means that camera systems must be even more effective to keep up. 

Real-Time Cameras is written by an experienced game developer who has written camera control systems for award-winning games such as Metroid Prime. Mark Haigh-Hutchinson discusses the key algorithms for camera control and then shows how to implement them in code. This book is written for game developers and designers, although it is also pertinent to other professionals in the interactive media field. Real-Time Cameras presents a practical approach to camera systems, introducing their theory, design, and implementation.

Mark Haigh-Hutchinson is a senior software engineer at Retro Studios Inc., based in Austin, Texas. He has designed and programmed video games professionally since 1984 and as a hobby since 1979. He has contributed to over 40 published games in roles as varied as programmer, designer, and project leader. Some of the more notable titles he has worked on include several Star Wars games: Rogue Squadron, Episode 1: Racer, Shadows of the Empire, and Rebel Assault, as well as other games such as Zombies Ate My Neighbors and The Secret of Monkey Island 2. Most recently Mark was responsible for the camera systems and player control in the award winning Metroid Prime and its sequel Metroid Prime 2: Echoes.

## Game Engine Architecture, Third Edition - Jason Gregory
In this new and improved third edition of the highly popular Game Engine Architecture, Jason Gregory draws on his nearly two decades of experience at Midway, Electronic Arts and Naughty Dog to present both the theory and practice of game engine software development. In this book, the broad range of technologies and techniques used by AAA game studios are each explained in detail, and their roles within a real industrial-strength game engine are illustrated.

Jason Gregory has worked as a professional software engineer since 1994. He got his start in game programming in 1999 at Midway Home Entertainment in San Diego, where he wrote tools and engine code, including the Playstation 2/Xbox animation system for "Freaky Flyers," "Hydro Thunder 2" and "Crank the Weasel." In 2003, Jason moved to Electronic Arts Los Angeles, where he worked on engine and gameplay technology for "Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault" and served as a lead engineer during the early phases of the "Medal of Honor: Airborne" project. Jason is currently a lead programmer at Naughty Dog Inc., where he most recently completed work on "Uncharted: The Lost Legacy" for PlayStation 4. He and his teammates are now hard at work on "The Last of Us Part II" (PS4). 

Jason also developed engine, tools and gameplay technology for Naughty Dog's "Uncharted: Drake's Fortune" (PS3), "Uncharted 2: Among Thieves" (PS3), "Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception" (PS3), "The Last of Us" (PS3), "The Last of Us Remastered" (PS4), "Uncharted 4: A Thief's End" (PS4), and has developed and taught courses in game technology at the University of Southern California.
